Annihilates the blackbox (#15132)
ParadiseSS13/Paradise: .github/USING_FEEDBACK_DATA.md

# Using Feedback Data

## Introduction

`Feedback` is the name of the data storage system used for logging game statistics to the database. It is managed by `SSblackbox` and can be reocrded in many formats. This guide will contain information on how to record feedback data properly, as well as what should and should not be recorded.

## Things you should and should not record

Feedback data can be useful, depending on how you use it. You need to be careful with what you record to make sure you are not saving useless data. Examples of good things to record:

- Antagonist win/loss rates if a new gamemode or antagonist is being added
- Department performance (IE: Slime cores produced in science)
- Basically anything which has actual meaning

> Examples of bad things to record:

Author: Feedback data is meant to be anon unless we log things that are available to EVERYONE (EG: antag status).

As for GDPR, that doesn't matter here. We already have many other ckey entries in the DB, and if someone did invoke right to erasure we can just remove their rows.

### Associative

`associative` is used to record text that's associated with multiple key-value pairs. (EG: coordinates). Further calls to the same key will append a new list to existing data. For example:

```dm
SSblackbox.record_feedback("associative", "example", 1, list("text" = "example", "path" = /obj/item, "number" = 4))
SSblackbox.record_feedback("associative", "example", 1, list("number" = 7, "text" = "example", "other text" = "sample"))
```

Will produce the following JSON:

```json
{
    "data":{
        "1":{
            "text":"example",
            "path":"/obj/item",
            "number":"4"
        },
        "2":{
            "number":"7",
            "text":"example",
            "other text":"sample"
        }
    }
}
```

Notice how everything is casted to strings, and each new entry added has its index increased ("1", "2", etc).

### Nested Tally

> `nested tally` is used to track the number of occurances of structured semi-relational values (EG: the results of arcade machines). Similar to running total, but related values are nested in a multi-dimensional array. The final element in the data list is used as the tracking key, all prior elements are used for nesting. Further calls to the same key will add or subtract from the saved value of the data key if it already exists in the same multi-dimensional position,  append the key and it's value if it doesn't exist already. This one is quite complicated, but an example is below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`nested tally` is used to track the number of occurances of structured semi-relational values (e.g.: the results of arcade machines). Similar to running total, but related values are nested in a multi-dimensional array. The final element in the data list is used as the tracking key, all prior elements are used for nesting. Further calls to the same key will add or subtract from the saved value of the data key if it already exists in the same multi-dimensional position,  append the key and it's value if it doesn't exist already. This one is quite complicated, but an example is below:
```

> `nested tally` is used to track the number of occurances of structured semi-relational values (EG: the results of arcade machines). Similar to running total, but related values are nested in a multi-dimensional array. The final element in the data list is used as the tracking key, all prior elements are used for nesting. Further calls to the same key will add or subtract from the saved value of the data key if it already exists in the same multi-dimensional position,  append the key and it's value if it doesn't exist already. This one is quite complicated, but an example is below:

Reviewer: I find it nicer to think of as just "tally, but the key is a list". Consider:

`nested tally` is used to track the number of occurances of structured semi-relational values (e.g.: the results of arcade machines). You can think of it as a running total, with the key being a list of strings (rather than a single string), with elements incrementally identifying the entity in question.
Technically, the values are nested in a multi-dimensional array. The final element in the data list is used as the tracking key, all prior elements are used for nesting. Further calls to the same key will add or subtract from the saved value of the data key if it already exists in the same multi-dimensional position,  append the key and it's value if it doesn't exist already. This one is quite complicated, but an example is below:

SSblackbox.record_feedback("nested tally", "example", 1, list("vegetable", "orange", "carrot"))
```

Will produce the following JSON:

```json
{
    "data":{
        "fruit":{
            "orange":{
                "apricot":4,
                "orange":2
            },
            "red":{
                "apple":10
            }
        },
        "vegetable":{
            "orange":{
                "carrot":1
            }
        }
    }
}
```

#### NOTE

Tracking values associated with a number can't merge with a nesting value, trying to do so will append the list

```dm
SSblackbox.record_feedback("nested tally", "example", 3, list("fruit", "orange"))
```

Will produce the following JSON:

```json
{
    "data":{
        "fruit":{
            "orange":{
                "apricot":4,
                "orange":2
            },
            "red":{
                "apple":10
            },
            "orange":3
        },
        "vegetable":{
            "orange":{
                "carrot":1
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Avoid doing this, since having duplicate keys in JSON (data.fruit.orange) will break when parsing.

### Tally

> `tally` is used to track the number of occurances of multiple related values (EG: how many times each type of gun is fired). Further calls to the same key will add or subtract from the saved value of the data key if it already exists, and append the key and it's value if it doesn't exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tally` is used to track the number of occurances of multiple related values (e.g.: how many times each type of gun is fired). Further calls to the same key will add or subtract from the saved value of the data key if it already exists, and append the key and it's value if it doesn't exist.
```

```dm
SSblackbox.record_feedback("tally", "example", 1, "sample data")
SSblackbox.record_feedback("tally", "example", 4, "sample data")
SSblackbox.record_feedback("tally", "example", 2, "other data")
```

Will produce the following JSON:

```json
{
    "data":{
        "sample data":5,
        "other data":2
    }
}
```

### Text

`text` is used for simple single-string records (EG: the current map). Further calls to the same key will append saved data unless the overwrite argument is true or it already exists. When encoded, calls made with overwrite will lack square brackets

```dm

> SSblackbox.record_feedback("text", "example", 1, "sample text")

Reviewer: Again, the `1` is unused, and, again, this is a reason to have it be its own `SSblackbox.record_feedback_text`

> SSblackbox.record_feedback("text", "example", 1, "sample text")
> SSblackbox.record_feedback("text", "example", 1, "other text")

Reviewer: Would be good to demonstrate  that the result is a set (with no duplicates), rather than a list/multiset.
```suggestion
SSblackbox.record_feedback("text", "example", 1, "sample text")
SSblackbox.record_feedback("text", "example", 1, "other text")
SSblackbox.record_feedback("text", "example", 1, "sample text")
```

```

Will produce the following JSON:

```json
{
    "data":[
        "sample text",
        "other text"
    ]
}
```

## Feedback Versioning

> If the logging format (IE: What data is logged) for a variable is ever changed, the version needs bumping. This can be done with the `versions` list on the subsystem definition itself. All values default to `1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the logging format (i.e.: What data is logged) for a variable is ever changed, the version needs bumping. This can be done with the `versions` list on the subsystem definition itself. All values default to `1`.
```

```dm
var/list/versions = list(
    "round_end_stats" = 4,
    "admin_toggle" = 2,
    "gun_fired" = 2)
```

> If you are doing a major change (IE: Changing from a `tally` to a `nested tally`), **USE AN ENTIRELY NEW KEY NAME**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are doing a major change (i.e.: Changing from a `tally` to a `nested tally`), **USE AN ENTIRELY NEW KEY NAME**.
```
